Telcodocs 2124:  Ensure NUMA Resources Operator Works on HyperShift Hosted Clusters (#91162)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cnf-creating-nrop-cr-hosted-control-plane.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *scalability_and_performance/cnf-numa-aware-scheduling.adoc

> :_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

Reviewer: Should this be `_module-type`?

Author: this is correct

[id="cnf-creating-nrop-cr-hosted-control-plane_{context}"]

> = Creating the NUMAResourcesOperator custom resource for the hosted control plane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Creating the NUMAResourcesOperator custom resource for {hcp}
```

> When you have installed the NUMA Resources Operator, then create the `NUMAResourcesOperator` custom resource (CR) that instructs the NUMA Resources Operator to install all the cluster infrastructure needed to support the NUMA-aware scheduler on hosted control plane, including daemon sets and APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you install the NUMA Resources Operator, create the `NUMAResourcesOperator` custom resource (CR) that instructs the NUMA Resources Operator to install all the cluster infrastructure needed to support the NUMA-aware scheduler on {hcp}, including daemon sets and APIs.
```

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

> * Install the NUMA Resources Operator.

Reviewer 2: Maybe it's worth adding a link to the the installation documentation:
https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html/scalability_and_performance/cnf-numa-aware-scheduling#installing-the-numa-resources-operator_numa-aware

.Procedure

> .  Export the management cluster kubeconfig:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.  Export the management cluster `kubeconfig` file by running the following command:
```
OCP doc guidelines: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#procedure-step-that-introduces-a-command

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export KUBECONFIG=</path/to/management-cluster-kubeconfig>
----

> . Run this command to find the `node-pool-name` for your cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Find the `node-pool-name` for your cluster by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc --kubeconfig="$MGMT_KUBECONFIG" get np -A
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAMESPACE   NAME                     CLUSTER       DESIRED NODES   CURRENT NODES   AUTOSCALING   AUTOREPAIR   VERSION   UPDATINGVERSION   UPDATINGCONFIG   MESSAGE
clusters    democluster-us-east-1a   democluster   1               1               False         False        4.19.0    False             False
----
+
The `node-pool-name` is the `NAME` field in the output. In this example, the `node-pool-name` is `democluster-us-east-1a`.

> . Create the `NUMAResourcesOperator` custom resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the `NUMAResourcesOperator` custom resource by completing the following steps:
```

> .. Save the following minimal required YAML file example as `nrop-hcp.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Create a YAML file named `nrop-hcp.yaml`. At a minimum, the file should contain the following content:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nodetopology.openshift.io/v1
kind: NUMAResourcesOperator
metadata:
  name: numaresourcesoperator
spec:
  nodeGroups:
  - poolName: democluster-us-east-1a <1>
----
+
<1> The `poolName` is the `node-pool-name` retrieved in step 2.

> . On the management cluster run the following to list available secrets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the management cluster, run the following command to list the available secrets:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get secrets -n clusters
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                              TYPE                      DATA   AGE
builder-dockercfg-25qpp           kubernetes.io/dockercfg   1      128m
default-dockercfg-mkvlz           kubernetes.io/dockercfg   1      128m
democluster-admin-kubeconfig      Opaque                    1      127m
democluster-etcd-encryption-key   Opaque                    1      128m
democluster-kubeadmin-password    Opaque                    1      126m
democluster-pull-secret           Opaque                    1      128m
deployer-dockercfg-8lfpd          kubernetes.io/dockercfg   1      128m
----

. Extract the `kubeconfig` file for the hosted cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get secret <SECRET_NAME> -n clusters -o jsonpath='{.data.kubeconfig}' | base64 -d > hosted-cluster-kubeconfig
----
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get secret democluster-admin-kubeconfig -n clusters -o jsonpath='{.data.kubeconfig}' | base64 -d > hosted-cluster-kubeconfig
----

> . Export the hosted cluster kubeconfig:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Export the hosted cluster `kubeconfig` file by running the following command:
```

--
:FeatureName: Creating the NUMAResourcesOperator custom resource for {hcp}
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]
--

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* Install the NUMA Resources Operator.

.Procedure

.  Export the management cluster kubeconfig file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export KUBECONFIG=</path/to/management-cluster-kubeconfig>
----

. Find the `node-pool-name` for your cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc --kubeconfig="$MGMT_KUBECONFIG" get np -A
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAMESPACE   NAME                     CLUSTER       DESIRED NODES   CURRENT NODES   AUTOSCALING   AUTOREPAIR   VERSION   UPDATINGVERSION   UPDATINGCONFIG   MESSAGE
clusters    democluster-us-east-1a   democluster   1               1               False         False        4.19.0    False             False
----
+
The `node-pool-name` is the `NAME` field in the output. In this example, the `node-pool-name` is `democluster-us-east-1a`.

> . Create the `NUMAResourcesOperator` custom resource  by completing the following steps:

Author: good catch may have other steps previously but rolled into one and forgot to update.

[id="cnf-creating-nrop-cr-hosted-control-plane_{context}"]
= Creating the NUMAResourcesOperator custom resource for the hosted control plane

When you have installed the NUMA Resources Operator, then create the `NUMAResourcesOperator` custom resource (CR) that instructs the NUMA Resources Operator to install all the cluster infrastructure needed to support the NUMA-aware scheduler on hosted control plane, including daemon sets and APIs.

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* Install the NUMA Resources Operator.

.Procedure

.  Export the management cluster kubeconfig:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export KUBECONFIG=</path/to/management-cluster-kubeconfig>
----

. Run this command to find the `node-pool-name` for your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc --kubeconfig="$MGMT_KUBECONFIG" get np -n A
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAMESPACE   NAME     CLUSTER   DESIRED NODES   CURRENT NODES   AUTOSCALING   AUTOREPAIR   VERSION   UPDATINGVERSION   UPDATINGCONFIG   MESSAGE
clusters    europa   europa    2               2               False         False        4.18.5    False             False
----

> . Create the `NUMAResourcesOperator` custom resource:

Reviewer 2: The creation should be done on the hosted-cluster

.. Save the following minimal required YAML file example as `nrop-hcp.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: nodetopology.openshift.io/v1
kind: NUMAResourcesOperator
metadata:
  name: numaresourcesoperator
spec:
  nodeGroups:
  - poolName: europa <1>
----
+
<1> The `poolName` is the `node-pool-name` retrieved in step 2.

.. Create the `NUMAResourcesOperator` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f nrop-hcp.yaml
----

.Verification

. Verify that the NUMA Resources Operator deployed successfully by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get numaresourcesoperators.nodetopology.openshift.io
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                    AGE
numaresourcesoperator   27s
----

> . After a few minutes, run the following command to verify that the required resources deployed successfully:

Reviewer 2: let's also mention that the creation of the `numaresourcesscheduler` is similar as in standard OCP and it should be created on the hosted-cluster as well
